feat: add readme to sample app (#1524)
rachel-fenichel/blockly-samples: examples/sample-app/README.md

# Blockly Sample App

## Purpose

> This app illustrates how to use Blockly together with common programming tools like node/npm, webpack, typescript, eslint, and others. You can copy and modify it as much as you'd like. It contains basic infrastructure for running, building, testing, etc. that you can use even if you don't understand how to configure the related tool yet. For creating your first application using Blockly, you can use the tools we've provided here for as long as they work for you. Eventually, you might need to customize the way your application builds, for example, and at that time you can replace the provided webpack configuration with your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This app illustrates how to use Blockly together with common programming tools like node/npm, webpack, typescript, eslint, and others. The intention is that you use this to get started using your application, and then modify it over time to suite your specific needs. To facilitate this, it contains basic infrastructure for running, building, testing, etc. that you can use even if you don't understand how to configure the tools for doing that yet. 
```

The original wording felt a little clunky to me, but not sure. This one is def just a suggestion, so feel free to not accept.

Author: Updated the wording, lmk what you think.

## Quick Start

1. [Install](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) npm if you haven't before.
2. Clone the blockly-samples repository and navigate to this `sample-app` directory (or make a copy of it) on the command line.
3. Run `npm install` to install the required dependencies.
4. Run `npm run start` to run the development server and see the app in action.

> 5. If you make any changes to the source code, just refresh the browser while the server is running to see them.

Reviewer: What's the plan for these instructions (and related codelabs)? I'm kind of confused why we're including this when we want people to stop cloning blockly/blockly samples, and we want them to use the `createPackage` command instead.

Are we planning to update the codelabs before updating the `createPackage` command, so we need these in the interum? or can these instructions just be left off until the `createPackage` command is updated?

Author: After create-package script is functional, this will be updated. But that will take a while and the sample app is already live and referenced in the generator codelab, and the other codelabs are in progress.

It made sense not to wait for the generator codelab for 2 reasons:
- that codelab was really broken and we were getting multiple questions about it
- used it as a proof of concept that the sample app was a good starting point for the codelab

## Tooling

The application uses many of the same tools that the Blockly team uses to develop Blockly itself. Following is a brief overview, and you can read more about them on our [developer site](https://developers.google.com/blockly/guides/contribute/get-started/development_tools). 

- Structure: The application is built as an npm package. You can use npm to manage the dependencies of the application.
- Modules: ES6 modules to handle imports to/exports from other files.
- Building/bundling: Webpack to build the source code and bundle it into one file for serving.
- Development server: webpack-dev-server to run locally while in development.
- Testing: Mocha to run unit tests.
- Linting: Eslint to lint the code and ensure it conforms with a standard style.

> - UI Framework: Does not use a framework. For more complex applications, you may wish to integrate a UI framework like React or Angular.

Reviewer: I kind of have reservations about duplicating information here, because it seems likely that these pages (readme vs devsite) will go out of sync. But I also think there's a reasonable benefit to including the info here directly.

Author: I would agree, but the information here is specifically about the sample app. The developer site includes information about other tools like Closure so I didn't think just pointing them there without further context / an overview made sense.

You can disable, reconfigure, or replace any of these tools at any time, but they are preconfigured to get you started developing your Blockly application quickly.

## Structure

- `package.json` contains basic information about the app. This is where the scripts to run, build, etc. are listed.
- `package-lock.json` is used by npm to manage dependencies
- `webpack.config.js` is the configuration for webpack. This handles bundling the application and running our development server.
- `src/` contains the rest of the source code.

> - `dist/` contains the packaged output (that you could host on a server, for example). This is ignored by git and will only appear after you run `npm run build` or `start`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `dist/` contains the packaged output (that you could host on a server, for example). This is ignored by git and will only appear after you run `npm run build` or `npm run start`.
```

For clarity. If we don't necessarily expect them to have npm installed, I don't necessarily expect them to parse this correctly either.

### Source Code

> - `index.html` contains the skeleton HTML for the page. This is modified during the build to inject the JS bundle into the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `index.html` contains the skeleton HTML for the page. This file is modified during the build to import the bundled source code output by webpack.
```

> - `index.js` is the entry point of the app. It configures Blockly and sets up the page to show the blocks, the generated code, and the output of running the code in JavaScript.

Reviewer: Might want to add "You probably want" sections to these top two files as well, so that it's matchy-matchy.

- `serialization.js` has code to save and load the workspace using the browser's local storage. This is how your workspace is saved even after refreshing or leaving the page. You could replace this with code that saves the user's data to a cloud database instead.
- `toolbox.js` contains the toolbox definition for the app. The current toolbox contains nearly every block that Blockly provides out of the box. You probably want to replace this definition with your own toolbox that uses your custom blocks and only includes the default blocks that are relevant to your application.
- `blocks/text.js` has code for a custom text block, just as an example of creating your own blocks. You probably want to delete this block, and add your own blocks in this directory.

> - `generators/javascript.js` contains the JavaScript generator for the custom text block. You'll need to include block generators for any custom blocks you create, in whatever language(s) your application will use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `generators/javascript.js` contains the JavaScript generator for the custom text block. You'll need to include block generators for any custom blocks you create, in whatever programming language(s) your application will use.
```
